---
layout: post
title: My RATA Journey
date: 2022-04-15 10:32:35
categories: ["journey", "about"]
---

**MY JOURNEY THROUGH RATA**
	
I joined RATA on June 18th and did not have much knowledge about RATA until I was informed about the perks that were available and how they could help during S&R rallies. Although that was the main reason I joined, my involvement within RATA grew overtime after I became RATA certified and applied for the position as a Junior Instructor. Being chosen to be a JI had to be the most significant role I achieved through RA at the time. Achieving this position has helped me achieve many other roles such as chat moderator, RA moderator, and Deputy Director of events. These positions have helped me as a person as it has taught me how to be more respectful towards others and how to act professionally. After going through the orientation and passing I was required to host eight trainings before being trusted to host on my own. I can still remember how stressful and scary it was to host my first training as I was scared that I would mess up and not know what to do. I then later received my promotion to be a supervisor which allowed me to train Junior Instructors. As a supervisor, I met new people and focused on getting them through their eight trainings. Not long after these events, I applied for the RATA chat moderator and was accepted; this allowed me to start my experience within the moderation department and learn the rules of RA and RATA. Then came another batch of JI’s, this was when I achieved the Junior Instructor trainer role. Acquiring this role was jaw-dropping as I never believed I would be in for this long and be appointed to that role. By gaining this role, it allowed me to host JI orientations and spectator trainings. Knowing they had so much trust in you was an incredible feeling and makes you want to stay longer and keep striving for your goals. Some of the great times I have had at RATA have got to be the graduations as we all get to perform abusive commands. Nevertheless, you get to witness many fresh graduates feel ecstatic as they have passed the program; nothing beats that sense of accomplishment. RATA has made me a better person in many ways, some varying from becoming more mature to being trustworthy and responsible.